README.md, before:

Accounts LDAP
-------------

__BREAKING CHANGE: v0.7.0 (uses ldapjs v1.0.0 instead of v0.7.1) is published without platform-specific builds, so a [build toolchain](https://guide.meteor.com/1.4-migration.html#binary-packages-require-build-toolchain) will need to be installed on each target deployment machine.__

Authentication and account management for Meteor using LDAP.

#### Overview

This is a package to implement authentication against a separate directory server via LDAP and retrieval of user attributes from that server. It is an adaptation of `hive:accounts-ldap`.

The things that this package does differently from `hive:accounts-ldap` are:

- UI matches that of the core package `accounts-ui`
- the UI can be replaced by adding another package
- user data (email address, etc.) is stored in the same format as that of the core package `accounts-password`
- users can authenticate using either username or email address
- LDAP settings can be set programatically or using a `settings.json` file
- this package can peacefully co-exist with the core `accounts-password` package
- there are hooks and methods that can be used for multi-tenant apps that store ldap connection info in collections
- there is more flexibility around the LDAP bind and search methods, allowing it to work with a range of different directory configurations

#### Installation

`meteor add babrahams:accounts-ldap`

#### Usage

Your server's URL and a DN or DNs to search will need to be set in a settings.json file as `serverUrl` and `serverDn`, respectively. In addition, you can select an array of `whiteListedFields` from an LDAP search to add to the `user.profile` field in the document created in `Meteor.users`. Or (optionally) choose a globally unique field to be recorded in the app database for more reliable lookups on subsequent logins. An example for the settings.json file is:

```
{
  "ldap": {
    "serverDn": "DC=ad,DC=university,DC=edu",
    "serverUrl": "ldap://ad.university.edu:389",
    // "whiteListedFields": [ "displayName", "givenName", "department", "employeeNumber", "mail", "title", "address", "phone", "memberOf"],
    // "autopublishFields": [ "displayName", "department", "mail", "title", "address", "phone"],
	// "uniqueIdentifier": "objectGUID"
  }
}
```

**OR**

To create settings programatically, overwrite the function below somewhere in your server code

```
// Overwrite this function to produce settings based on the incoming request
LDAP.generateSettings = function (request) {
  return null;	
}
```

returning an object of the form:

```
{
  "serverDn": "DC=ad,DC=university,DC=edu",
  "serverUrl": "ldap://ad.university.edu:389",
  "whiteListedFields": [ "displayName", "givenName", "department", "employeeNumber", "mail", "title", "address", "phone", "memberOf"],
  "autopublishFields": [ "displayName", "department", "mail", "title", "address", "phone"]
}
```

#### API

##### Client

You can send info from the client to your app server via the request parameter by overwriting the below function **on the client** whose return value will set the value of `request.data`:

```
LDAP.data = function () { return null; };
```

You can set a username to display for the logged in user by overwriting the following function:

```
LDAP.username = function (user) { return ''; };
```
If you don't overwrite it, `currentUser.username` will be used; or, if that isn't found, the first email address for that user; or, if that isn't found, "Authenticated user".

The following are only used if you want to create a custom sign-in form:

```
LDAP.customFormTemplate.set("customFormTemplateName");
```

`LDAP.formHelpers` and `LDAP.formEvents` are the helpers and events hashes that the original form uses and are available to custom forms.

A full working implementation of a custom form is here:

[babrahams:accounts-ldap-ionic](https://atmospherejs.com/babrahams/accounts-ldap-ionic) ([github repo](https://github.com/JackAdams/meteor-accounts-ldap-ionic))

##### Server

You can produce a custom bind value (value that is used with the user-submitted password to bind to the directory server via LDAP) by overwriting this function **on the server**:

```
LDAP.bindValue = function (usernameOrEmail, isEmailAddress, FQDN) {
  return ((isEmailAddress) ? usernameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : usernameOrEmail) + '@' + FQDN;	
}
```

You can create a custom search filter by overwriting the `LDAP.filter` function **on the server** (if the default version, shown below, does not work for your particular LDAP configuration):

```
// This filter, used with default settings for LDAP.searchField assumes that the part of the email address before the @ perfectly matches the cn value for each user
// Overwrite this if you need a custom filter for your particular directory server configuration
// For example if everyone has the 'mail' field set, but the bit before the @ in the email address doesn't exactly match users' cn values, you could do:
// LDAP.filter = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) { return '(&(' + ((isEmailAddress) ? 'mail' : 'cn') + '=' + usernameOrEmail + ')(objectClass=user))'; }

LDAP.filter = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) {
  var searchField = (_.isFunction(LDAP.searchField)) ? LDAP.searchField.call(this) : LDAP.searchField;
  var searchValue = LDAP.searchValue.call(this, isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN);
  return '(&(' + searchField + '=' + searchValue + ')(objectClass=user))';
}

LDAP.searchValue = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) {
  var username = (isEmailAddress) ? usernameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : usernameOrEmail;
  var searchValue;
  var searchValueType = (_.isFunction(LDAP.searchValueType)) ? LDAP.searchValueType.call(this) : LDAP.searchValueType;
  switch (searchValueType) {
	case 'userPrincipalName' :
	  searchValue = username + '@' + FQDN;
	  break;
	case 'email' :
	  searchValue = (isEmailAddress) ? userNameOrEmail : username + '@' + FQDN; // If it's not an email address, we're kind of guessing
	  break;
	case 'username' :
	default :
	  searchValue = username;
  }
  return searchValue;
}
```

If you don't need to overwrite the whole filter, you can just set the following **on the server** (for example in AD with the `userPrincipalName` values in the standard format for each user):

```
LDAP.searchField = 'userPrincipalName';
LDAP.searchValueType = 'userPrincipalName';
```

The default settings are:

```
LDAP.searchField = 'cn';
LDAP.searchValueType = 'username';
```

You can set `LDAP.searchField` and `LDAP.searchValueType` to be string values or functions that return string values.

The three `LDAP.searchValueType` values that are built in are: `username`, `email`, and `userPrincipalName`.

```
LDAP.tryDBFirst = true;
```
**on the server** if you want the package to try and log the user in using the app database before hitting the LDAP server. (This is `false` by default.)

```
// This is used to produce the query that checks whether there is an existing user in the database when LDAP.tryDBFirst = true
// It can be overwritten to produce custom selectors
LDAP.userLookupQuery = function (fieldName, fieldValue, isEmail, isMultitenantIdentifier) {
  // Context (this) is the request sent from client
  var selector = {};
  selector[fieldName] = fieldValue;
  // Must return a mongo selector -- e.g. {username: "jackadams"} or {"email.address": "example@example.com"}
  return selector;
}
```

```
LDAP.logging = false;
```
**on the server** if you want to suppress output to the server console (this is `true` by default, to help with debugging during the initial setup phase)

You can optionally overwrite the following logging function **on the server** to manage logging yourself:

```
LDAP.log: function (message) {
  if (LDAP.logging) {
	console.log(message);
  }
}
```

This is a hook you can use **on the server** when a user successfully signs in using LDAP (doesn't fire if the sign in is via the app database when using `LDAP.tryDBFirst`)
```
LDAP.onSignIn(function (userDocument, userData, ldapEntry) {
  // Do things to user document like Roles.removeUsersFromRoles(userDocument, 'admin')
});
```
The purpose of this hook is to let the app modify a user document if it finds conditions have changed on the directory server (e.g. the user is no longer an admin or has left the organization) and it needs to mirror this in its own db document(s). `this` in the function is the sign in request (an object) sent from the client (which contains the plain text password, as does the `userData` parameter). `userDoc`, `userData`, and `ldapEntry` are all js objects.

Overwrite this function **on the server** to modify the condition used to find an existing user:

```
LDAP.modifyCondition = function (condition, userObj) {
  // `this` is the request from the client
  // `userObj` has the fields `email`, `username`, `password` (plain text), `profile`
  return condition;    
}
```
The condition passed to this function is of the form:
```
{emails: {$elemMatch: {address: <emailAddress>}}};
```
if an email address was typed in the login form on the client, or, if a username was typed in the login form on the client, it is of this form:
```
{username: <username>}
```

A similar search condition should be returned by the function. `this` in this function's context is the request object received from the client.

**Note:** if there is a possibility that your Meteor app allows duplicate usernames or email addresses, you could overwrite this function. But, better than this, is to use `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier` as shown below.

To make sure a multi-tenant app doesn't get mixed up with duplicate usernames or passwords, set:

```
LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'tenant_id';
```
where `'tenant_id'` is a string that gives the name of a key from `request.data`, as sent from the client using `LDAP.data` (see above). The value associated with this key must be a unique id value for the tenant.

**Note:** if you use `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier`, then `LDAP.modifyCondition` will have no effect, as the package will create the user identifier for you. Also, a new field `ldapIdentifier` will be added to each document added to the `Meteor.users` collection by this package.

```
LDAP.appUsername = function (userNameOrEmail, isEmail, userObj) {
  // userObj contains the best guess we've got for email and username, one of which successfully retrieved a user from the directory using LDAP
  // `this` is the request received from the client
  return (isEmail) ? userNameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : userNameOrEmail;	
}
```

Overwrite this function **on the server** if the app needs to do something to modify the username of the users in the app database (i.e. the username field in the app should be different from the username field in the directory accessed via LDAP).  Mainly for multi-tenant apps where users belonging to different tenants can have the same username, but because there is a unique index on the `username` field in the `users` collection, this can't happen without modifying the username when: 1) creating a user, 2) doing lookups by username. Overwriting this function takes care of both of those, provided you guarantee unique usernames.

Full example:

_Client_
```
LDAP.data = function () {
  return {
    tenant_id: Session.get('tenant_id')
  };
};
```
_Server_
```
LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'tenant_id';
```

Overwrite the function below **on the server** to add custom fields to the new user document created when a user from the directory server isn't found in the Meteor app's database (based on the 'condition' discussed above):
```
LDAP.addFields = function (person) {
  // `this` is the request from the client
  // `person` is the object returned from the LDAP server
  // return the fields that are to be added when creating a user as an object with {key: value} pairs
  return {};	
}
```

The following hook can be used **on the server**:
```
LDAP.onAddMultitenantIdentifier(function (ldapIdentifier, userDocument, userData) {
  // Do things to user document like Roles.setUserRoles(userDocument, 'admin', 'foo-organization')
});
```
The reason for this hook's existence is that when an existing user sucsessfully signs into a different tenant in an app that has `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier` set, this package will add a new value to the array in the `ldapIdentifier` field, but it won't deal with any of the extra fields created using `LDAP.addFields` (as these may have only been for new account creation).  However, if the app needs to update the user document due to the fact that this is the first time a user has signed in to this particular tenant (e.g. to add roles in this tenant's context), then this hook is available.

**Note:** the `userData` parameter contains the plain text password, so be careful what you do with the userData object.  For instance, don't stringify and log it somewhere insecure!

#### Built in UI

`{{> ldapLoginButtons}}` renders a template with username/email and password inputs. If login is successful, the user will be added to the `Meteor.users` collection. It is up to the app to publish and subscribe to certain fields from the user document. By default, only the username is published.

#### Warning

Password is sent from client to server in plain text.  Only use this package in conjunction with SSL.

Although this package supports multi-tenancy, where each tenant has their own directory server, the connection between Meteor app server and directory server is unencrypted (waiting on a new version of `ldapjs` that supports TLS) unless the directory server is using ssl - i.e. `ldaps://`. Because plain text passwords are sent from the app to the directory server, you really shouldn't use this package in any app that sits outside the corporate firewall!

#### TODO

- make the sign in form more configurable with options like:
  - `unstyled=true` - to remove all classes
  - `alwaysOpen` - to make the form automatically open
  - `loggedOutLinkTemplate` - to replace the default link that you click to open the form
  - `loggedInLinkTemplate` - to replace the default link that you click to get the dropdown once logged in
- work on securing traffic from client through to LDAP server
- automated testing
  
#### Example code

_From a working multi-tenant app (where 'tenants' are called 'organizations')._

###### Client

```
LDAP.data = function () {
  return {organization_id: App.state.get('organization_id') || null};  
}
```

###### Server

```
LDAP.logging = false;
LDAP.tryDBFirst = true;

LDAP.generateSettings = function (request) {
  if (request.data && request.data.organization_id) {
	var organization_id = request.data.organization_id;
	check(organization_id, String);
	var organization = Organizations.findOne({_id: organization_id});
	if (organization.ldap) {
	  var ldapSettings = organization.ldap;
	  return {
		"serverDn": ldapSettings.serverDn,
		"serverUrl": ldapSettings.serverUrl,
		"whiteListedFields": [ldapSettings.displayNameField || "displayName"],
		"autopublishFields": []
	  };
	}
  }
  return null;  
}

LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'organization_id';

LDAP.onAddMultitenantIdentifier(function (addedIdentifier, userDoc, userData) {
  // `this` is the request object if we need it
  // currentOrganization needs to be set and so do roles
  var updates = {};
  if (userData && userData.currentOrganization) {
	// The relevant userData was set by the LDAP.addFields function below
	// But the user already existed, so roles and 
	Meteor.users.update({_id: userDoc._id}, {$set: {currentOrganization: userData.currentOrganization}}); 
	if (userData && userData.roles && userData.roles[userData.currentOrganization]) {
	  Roles.addUsersToRoles(userDoc._id, userData.roles[userData.currentOrganization], userData.currentOrganization);
	}
  }
});

LDAP.addFields = function (person) {
  var newUserFields = {};
  var organization_id = this.data && this.data.organization_id;
  if (organization_id) {
    newUserFields.currentOrganization = organization_id;
	if (userIsLeader(person, organization_id)) {
	  // This is sidestepping the roles package Roles.addUsersToRole function, but has the same effect
	  // The reason for this is, the user doesn't exist yet! (So we can't add roles to them.)
	  var roles = {};
	  roles[organization_id] = ["leader"];
	  newUserFields.roles = roles;
	}
  }
  return newUserFields;
}

LDAP.onSignIn(function (user, userData, ldapEntry) {
  // `this` is the request sent
  // Check whether the user is still a leader or has become a leader and act accordingly
  // Not much point to this, while LDAP.tryDBFirst = true; as onSignIn only fires when the LDAP server is hit
  // And it should never get hit again in subsequent sign ons unless the user changes organizations
  var person = ldapEntry;
  var isReallyLeader = userIsLeader(person, user.currentOrganization);
  var isLeaderinApp = Roles.userIsInRole(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);
  // If the person has stopped being a leader
  if (isLeaderinApp && !isReallyLeader) {
    Roles.removeUsersFromRoles(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);
  }
  if (!isLeaderinApp && isReallyLeader) {
	Roles.setUserRoles(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);  
  }
});

// LDAP specific function, which is why it's in this file
var userIsLeader = function (person, organization_id) {
  var leader = false;
  // Need to parse the LDAP object and determine whether this person is a leader in the organization
  if (organization_id) {
	var organization = Organizations.findOne({_id: organization_id});
	if (person.dn && organization && organization.ldap && organization.ldap.leaderDnContains && _.isArray(organization.ldap.leaderDnContains)) {
	  var leader = _.reduce(organization.ldap.leaderDnContains, function (memo, searchString) {
		if (person.dn.indexOf(searchString) === -1) {
		  memo = false;	
		}
		return memo;
	  }, true);
	}
  }
  return leader;
}
```

Documents from the `Organizations` collection look like this:

```
{
  "_id": "45JE8Q6zufss7Fwzx"
  "name": "My Organization",
  "ldap": {
    "serverDn": "OU=people,OU=we_like,DC=myorganization,DC=com",
    "serverUrl": "ldap://pdc.myorganization.com:389",
    "leaderDnContains": [
      "Leader",
      "Currently_Active"
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update documentation to help with `bcrypt` issues
Closes #15

README.md, after:

Accounts LDAP
-------------

__BREAKING CHANGE: v0.7.0 (uses ldapjs v1.0.0 instead of v0.7.1) is published without platform-specific builds, so a [build toolchain](https://guide.meteor.com/1.4-migration.html#binary-packages-require-build-toolchain) will need to be installed on each target deployment machine.__ If you are having issues, you can also try installing the bcrypt package from meteor: `meteor add npm-bcrypt`.

Authentication and account management for Meteor using LDAP.

#### Overview

This is a package to implement authentication against a separate directory server via LDAP and retrieval of user attributes from that server. It is an adaptation of `hive:accounts-ldap`.

The things that this package does differently from `hive:accounts-ldap` are:

- UI matches that of the core package `accounts-ui`
- the UI can be replaced by adding another package
- user data (email address, etc.) is stored in the same format as that of the core package `accounts-password`
- users can authenticate using either username or email address
- LDAP settings can be set programatically or using a `settings.json` file
- this package can peacefully co-exist with the core `accounts-password` package
- there are hooks and methods that can be used for multi-tenant apps that store ldap connection info in collections
- there is more flexibility around the LDAP bind and search methods, allowing it to work with a range of different directory configurations

#### Installation

`meteor add babrahams:accounts-ldap`

#### Usage

Your server's URL and a DN or DNs to search will need to be set in a settings.json file as `serverUrl` and `serverDn`, respectively. In addition, you can select an array of `whiteListedFields` from an LDAP search to add to the `user.profile` field in the document created in `Meteor.users`. Or (optionally) choose a globally unique field to be recorded in the app database for more reliable lookups on subsequent logins. An example for the settings.json file is:

```
{
  "ldap": {
    "serverDn": "DC=ad,DC=university,DC=edu",
    "serverUrl": "ldap://ad.university.edu:389",
    // "whiteListedFields": [ "displayName", "givenName", "department", "employeeNumber", "mail", "title", "address", "phone", "memberOf"],
    // "autopublishFields": [ "displayName", "department", "mail", "title", "address", "phone"],
	// "uniqueIdentifier": "objectGUID"
  }
}
```

**OR**

To create settings programatically, overwrite the function below somewhere in your server code

```
// Overwrite this function to produce settings based on the incoming request
LDAP.generateSettings = function (request) {
  return null;	
}
```

returning an object of the form:

```
{
  "serverDn": "DC=ad,DC=university,DC=edu",
  "serverUrl": "ldap://ad.university.edu:389",
  "whiteListedFields": [ "displayName", "givenName", "department", "employeeNumber", "mail", "title", "address", "phone", "memberOf"],
  "autopublishFields": [ "displayName", "department", "mail", "title", "address", "phone"]
}
```

#### API

##### Client

You can send info from the client to your app server via the request parameter by overwriting the below function **on the client** whose return value will set the value of `request.data`:

```
LDAP.data = function () { return null; };
```

You can set a username to display for the logged in user by overwriting the following function:

```
LDAP.username = function (user) { return ''; };
```
If you don't overwrite it, `currentUser.username` will be used; or, if that isn't found, the first email address for that user; or, if that isn't found, "Authenticated user".

The following are only used if you want to create a custom sign-in form:

```
LDAP.customFormTemplate.set("customFormTemplateName");
```

`LDAP.formHelpers` and `LDAP.formEvents` are the helpers and events hashes that the original form uses and are available to custom forms.

A full working implementation of a custom form is here:

[babrahams:accounts-ldap-ionic](https://atmospherejs.com/babrahams/accounts-ldap-ionic) ([github repo](https://github.com/JackAdams/meteor-accounts-ldap-ionic))

##### Server

You can produce a custom bind value (value that is used with the user-submitted password to bind to the directory server via LDAP) by overwriting this function **on the server**:

```
LDAP.bindValue = function (usernameOrEmail, isEmailAddress, FQDN) {
  return ((isEmailAddress) ? usernameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : usernameOrEmail) + '@' + FQDN;	
}
```

You can create a custom search filter by overwriting the `LDAP.filter` function **on the server** (if the default version, shown below, does not work for your particular LDAP configuration):

```
// This filter, used with default settings for LDAP.searchField assumes that the part of the email address before the @ perfectly matches the cn value for each user
// Overwrite this if you need a custom filter for your particular directory server configuration
// For example if everyone has the 'mail' field set, but the bit before the @ in the email address doesn't exactly match users' cn values, you could do:
// LDAP.filter = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) { return '(&(' + ((isEmailAddress) ? 'mail' : 'cn') + '=' + usernameOrEmail + ')(objectClass=user))'; }

LDAP.filter = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) {
  var searchField = (_.isFunction(LDAP.searchField)) ? LDAP.searchField.call(this) : LDAP.searchField;
  var searchValue = LDAP.searchValue.call(this, isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN);
  return '(&(' + searchField + '=' + searchValue + ')(objectClass=user))';
}

LDAP.searchValue = function (isEmailAddress, usernameOrEmail, FQDN) {
  var username = (isEmailAddress) ? usernameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : usernameOrEmail;
  var searchValue;
  var searchValueType = (_.isFunction(LDAP.searchValueType)) ? LDAP.searchValueType.call(this) : LDAP.searchValueType;
  switch (searchValueType) {
	case 'userPrincipalName' :
	  searchValue = username + '@' + FQDN;
	  break;
	case 'email' :
	  searchValue = (isEmailAddress) ? userNameOrEmail : username + '@' + FQDN; // If it's not an email address, we're kind of guessing
	  break;
	case 'username' :
	default :
	  searchValue = username;
  }
  return searchValue;
}
```

If you don't need to overwrite the whole filter, you can just set the following **on the server** (for example in AD with the `userPrincipalName` values in the standard format for each user):

```
LDAP.searchField = 'userPrincipalName';
LDAP.searchValueType = 'userPrincipalName';
```

The default settings are:

```
LDAP.searchField = 'cn';
LDAP.searchValueType = 'username';
```

You can set `LDAP.searchField` and `LDAP.searchValueType` to be string values or functions that return string values.

The three `LDAP.searchValueType` values that are built in are: `username`, `email`, and `userPrincipalName`.

```
LDAP.tryDBFirst = true;
```
**on the server** if you want the package to try and log the user in using the app database before hitting the LDAP server. (This is `false` by default.)

```
// This is used to produce the query that checks whether there is an existing user in the database when LDAP.tryDBFirst = true
// It can be overwritten to produce custom selectors
LDAP.userLookupQuery = function (fieldName, fieldValue, isEmail, isMultitenantIdentifier) {
  // Context (this) is the request sent from client
  var selector = {};
  selector[fieldName] = fieldValue;
  // Must return a mongo selector -- e.g. {username: "jackadams"} or {"email.address": "example@example.com"}
  return selector;
}
```

```
LDAP.logging = false;
```
**on the server** if you want to suppress output to the server console (this is `true` by default, to help with debugging during the initial setup phase)

You can optionally overwrite the following logging function **on the server** to manage logging yourself:

```
LDAP.log: function (message) {
  if (LDAP.logging) {
	console.log(message);
  }
}
```

This is a hook you can use **on the server** when a user successfully signs in using LDAP (doesn't fire if the sign in is via the app database when using `LDAP.tryDBFirst`)
```
LDAP.onSignIn(function (userDocument, userData, ldapEntry) {
  // Do things to user document like Roles.removeUsersFromRoles(userDocument, 'admin')
});
```
The purpose of this hook is to let the app modify a user document if it finds conditions have changed on the directory server (e.g. the user is no longer an admin or has left the organization) and it needs to mirror this in its own db document(s). `this` in the function is the sign in request (an object) sent from the client (which contains the plain text password, as does the `userData` parameter). `userDoc`, `userData`, and `ldapEntry` are all js objects.

Overwrite this function **on the server** to modify the condition used to find an existing user:

```
LDAP.modifyCondition = function (condition, userObj) {
  // `this` is the request from the client
  // `userObj` has the fields `email`, `username`, `password` (plain text), `profile`
  return condition;    
}
```
The condition passed to this function is of the form:
```
{emails: {$elemMatch: {address: <emailAddress>}}};
```
if an email address was typed in the login form on the client, or, if a username was typed in the login form on the client, it is of this form:
```
{username: <username>}
```

A similar search condition should be returned by the function. `this` in this function's context is the request object received from the client.

**Note:** if there is a possibility that your Meteor app allows duplicate usernames or email addresses, you could overwrite this function. But, better than this, is to use `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier` as shown below.

To make sure a multi-tenant app doesn't get mixed up with duplicate usernames or passwords, set:

```
LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'tenant_id';
```
where `'tenant_id'` is a string that gives the name of a key from `request.data`, as sent from the client using `LDAP.data` (see above). The value associated with this key must be a unique id value for the tenant.

**Note:** if you use `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier`, then `LDAP.modifyCondition` will have no effect, as the package will create the user identifier for you. Also, a new field `ldapIdentifier` will be added to each document added to the `Meteor.users` collection by this package.

```
LDAP.appUsername = function (userNameOrEmail, isEmail, userObj) {
  // userObj contains the best guess we've got for email and username, one of which successfully retrieved a user from the directory using LDAP
  // `this` is the request received from the client
  return (isEmail) ? userNameOrEmail.split('@')[0] : userNameOrEmail;	
}
```

Overwrite this function **on the server** if the app needs to do something to modify the username of the users in the app database (i.e. the username field in the app should be different from the username field in the directory accessed via LDAP).  Mainly for multi-tenant apps where users belonging to different tenants can have the same username, but because there is a unique index on the `username` field in the `users` collection, this can't happen without modifying the username when: 1) creating a user, 2) doing lookups by username. Overwriting this function takes care of both of those, provided you guarantee unique usernames.

Full example:

_Client_
```
LDAP.data = function () {
  return {
    tenant_id: Session.get('tenant_id')
  };
};
```
_Server_
```
LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'tenant_id';
```

Overwrite the function below **on the server** to add custom fields to the new user document created when a user from the directory server isn't found in the Meteor app's database (based on the 'condition' discussed above):
```
LDAP.addFields = function (person) {
  // `this` is the request from the client
  // `person` is the object returned from the LDAP server
  // return the fields that are to be added when creating a user as an object with {key: value} pairs
  return {};	
}
```

The following hook can be used **on the server**:
```
LDAP.onAddMultitenantIdentifier(function (ldapIdentifier, userDocument, userData) {
  // Do things to user document like Roles.setUserRoles(userDocument, 'admin', 'foo-organization')
});
```
The reason for this hook's existence is that when an existing user sucsessfully signs into a different tenant in an app that has `LDAP.multitenantIdentifier` set, this package will add a new value to the array in the `ldapIdentifier` field, but it won't deal with any of the extra fields created using `LDAP.addFields` (as these may have only been for new account creation).  However, if the app needs to update the user document due to the fact that this is the first time a user has signed in to this particular tenant (e.g. to add roles in this tenant's context), then this hook is available.

**Note:** the `userData` parameter contains the plain text password, so be careful what you do with the userData object.  For instance, don't stringify and log it somewhere insecure!

#### Built in UI

`{{> ldapLoginButtons}}` renders a template with username/email and password inputs. If login is successful, the user will be added to the `Meteor.users` collection. It is up to the app to publish and subscribe to certain fields from the user document. By default, only the username is published.

#### Warning

Password is sent from client to server in plain text.  Only use this package in conjunction with SSL.

Although this package supports multi-tenancy, where each tenant has their own directory server, the connection between Meteor app server and directory server is unencrypted (waiting on a new version of `ldapjs` that supports TLS) unless the directory server is using ssl - i.e. `ldaps://`. Because plain text passwords are sent from the app to the directory server, you really shouldn't use this package in any app that sits outside the corporate firewall!

#### TODO

- make the sign in form more configurable with options like:
  - `unstyled=true` - to remove all classes
  - `alwaysOpen` - to make the form automatically open
  - `loggedOutLinkTemplate` - to replace the default link that you click to open the form
  - `loggedInLinkTemplate` - to replace the default link that you click to get the dropdown once logged in
- work on securing traffic from client through to LDAP server
- automated testing
  
#### Example code

_From a working multi-tenant app (where 'tenants' are called 'organizations')._

###### Client

```
LDAP.data = function () {
  return {organization_id: App.state.get('organization_id') || null};  
}
```

###### Server

```
LDAP.logging = false;
LDAP.tryDBFirst = true;

LDAP.generateSettings = function (request) {
  if (request.data && request.data.organization_id) {
	var organization_id = request.data.organization_id;
	check(organization_id, String);
	var organization = Organizations.findOne({_id: organization_id});
	if (organization.ldap) {
	  var ldapSettings = organization.ldap;
	  return {
		"serverDn": ldapSettings.serverDn,
		"serverUrl": ldapSettings.serverUrl,
		"whiteListedFields": [ldapSettings.displayNameField || "displayName"],
		"autopublishFields": []
	  };
	}
  }
  return null;  
}

LDAP.multitenantIdentifier = 'organization_id';

LDAP.onAddMultitenantIdentifier(function (addedIdentifier, userDoc, userData) {
  // `this` is the request object if we need it
  // currentOrganization needs to be set and so do roles
  var updates = {};
  if (userData && userData.currentOrganization) {
	// The relevant userData was set by the LDAP.addFields function below
	// But the user already existed, so roles and 
	Meteor.users.update({_id: userDoc._id}, {$set: {currentOrganization: userData.currentOrganization}}); 
	if (userData && userData.roles && userData.roles[userData.currentOrganization]) {
	  Roles.addUsersToRoles(userDoc._id, userData.roles[userData.currentOrganization], userData.currentOrganization);
	}
  }
});

LDAP.addFields = function (person) {
  var newUserFields = {};
  var organization_id = this.data && this.data.organization_id;
  if (organization_id) {
    newUserFields.currentOrganization = organization_id;
	if (userIsLeader(person, organization_id)) {
	  // This is sidestepping the roles package Roles.addUsersToRole function, but has the same effect
	  // The reason for this is, the user doesn't exist yet! (So we can't add roles to them.)
	  var roles = {};
	  roles[organization_id] = ["leader"];
	  newUserFields.roles = roles;
	}
  }
  return newUserFields;
}

LDAP.onSignIn(function (user, userData, ldapEntry) {
  // `this` is the request sent
  // Check whether the user is still a leader or has become a leader and act accordingly
  // Not much point to this, while LDAP.tryDBFirst = true; as onSignIn only fires when the LDAP server is hit
  // And it should never get hit again in subsequent sign ons unless the user changes organizations
  var person = ldapEntry;
  var isReallyLeader = userIsLeader(person, user.currentOrganization);
  var isLeaderinApp = Roles.userIsInRole(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);
  // If the person has stopped being a leader
  if (isLeaderinApp && !isReallyLeader) {
    Roles.removeUsersFromRoles(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);
  }
  if (!isLeaderinApp && isReallyLeader) {
	Roles.setUserRoles(user, 'leader', user.currentOrganization);  
  }
});

// LDAP specific function, which is why it's in this file
var userIsLeader = function (person, organization_id) {
  var leader = false;
  // Need to parse the LDAP object and determine whether this person is a leader in the organization
  if (organization_id) {
	var organization = Organizations.findOne({_id: organization_id});
	if (person.dn && organization && organization.ldap && organization.ldap.leaderDnContains && _.isArray(organization.ldap.leaderDnContains)) {
	  var leader = _.reduce(organization.ldap.leaderDnContains, function (memo, searchString) {
		if (person.dn.indexOf(searchString) === -1) {
		  memo = false;	
		}
		return memo;
	  }, true);
	}
  }
  return leader;
}
```

Documents from the `Organizations` collection look like this:

```
{
  "_id": "45JE8Q6zufss7Fwzx"
  "name": "My Organization",
  "ldap": {
    "serverDn": "OU=people,OU=we_like,DC=myorganization,DC=com",
    "serverUrl": "ldap://pdc.myorganization.com:389",
    "leaderDnContains": [
      "Leader",
      "Currently_Active"
    ]
  }
}
```
